README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  
# 🛡️ City Connect Omega: Prime Edition
### *Autonomous Cyber-Physical Defense Grid with Continuous Vector Learning*

  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.11+-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=python" alt="Python">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Agentic_AI-Llama--3.3-orange?style=for-the-badge" alt="Agentic AI">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Memory-ChromaDB_Vector_Cortex-purple?style=for-the-badge" alt="ChromaDB">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Swarm-ACO_Optimized-green?style=for-the-badge" alt="Swarm Intelligence">

</div>

---

> **An autonomous, multi-agent cyber-immune system for mission-critical Smart City IoT grids.** Built with Agentic AI for tactical diagnostics, **Episodic Vector Memory (RAG)** for historical threat recognition, and a Human-in-the-Loop (HOTL) Continuous Learning architecture that evolves the swarm's intelligence with every defeated zero-day attack.

## 🏗️ System Architecture

The project is built on a **Distributed Microservice Architecture**, decoupling physical asset simulation from the cognitive AI cortex. This ensures zero-latency UI performance while allowing the Llama-3.3 LLM to perform deep semantic searches against the vector database.

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph "The World (Kinematic Physical Layer)"
        A[City Grid Simulation] -->|Live Telemetry| B{ML Predictive Cortex}
    end

    subgraph "The Brain (Cognitive Layer & RAG)"
        B -->|Anomaly Score < 0| C[Oracle Diagnosis Agent]
        H[(ChromaDB Vector Memory)] <-->|Semantic Search / RAG| C
        C -->|Tactical Brief & Match| D[Executive Commander]
    end

    subgraph "The Shield (Governance & Auto-Learning Layer)"
        D -->|Proposed Action| E[Human-in-the-Loop Veto]
        E -->|Approved (YES)| F[Continuous Auto-Learning]
        F -->|Burn Signature to DB| H
        E -->|Approved (YES)| G[Swarm ACO Reroute]
        E -->|Vetoed (NO)| I[System Log Only]
    end

    G -->|Command Execution| A
    
Core Microservices
Kinematic Physical Layer (app/simulation/): A spatial engine simulating moving IoT nodes in a 1000x1000m coordinate space.

Agentic Cognitive Layer (oracle_agent.py): Powered by CrewAI and Groq (Llama-3.3). Specialized agents diagnose anomalies not by guessing, but by searching historical data.

Episodic Vector Memory (chromadb): A persistent high-dimensional database storing mathematical representations of every attack signature and proven countermeasure.

Continuous Learning API (api_server.py): Asynchronous FastAPI backend. When a human commander approves a tactic, this layer automatically embeds the zero-day footprint into the vector cortex for future recognition.

Digital Twin Command Center (dashboard.py): A high-performance 3D spatial visualization utilizing PyDeck and Streamlit with real-time popup logging.

🧠 Continuous Intelligence Loop
This sequence diagram tracks the advanced asynchronous communication between the physical grid, the RAG-enhanced AI, and the continuous learning feedback loop.
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    participant G as IoT Grid
    participant O as Oracle Agent
    participant V as Vector Database (ChromaDB)
    participant H as Human Commander
    participant A as API Auto-Learning

    G->>O: Push Anomalous Telemetry
    O->>V: Query Semantic Math (RAG)
    V-->>O: Return Historical Match & Countermeasure
    O-->>O: Formulate Tactical Brief
    O->>H: Request Execution Authorization
    H->>H: Review AI Reasoning
    alt Approved (YES)
        H->>A: Approve Action
        A->>V: Burn New Telemetry Signature to Memory
        A->>G: Deploy Countermeasures
    else Vetoed (NO)
        H->>G: Maintain Status Quo (Action Blocked)
    end
    
    
🧮 Scientific Mathematical Pillars
I. High-Dimensional Semantic Retrieval (RAG Memory)The AI does not rely on exact text matching. Telemetry signatures are converted into dense vector embeddings. The Vector Cortex uses Cosine Similarity to mathematically retrieve the closest historical threat signature to a live zero-day anomaly:$$S_C(U, V) = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^{n} U_i V_i}{\sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{n} U_i^2} \sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{n} V_i^2}}$$Where $U$ and $V$ are the high-dimensional vectors representing the current attack and historical database entries.

II. Behavioral Anomaly DetectionThe Predictive Cortex utilizes an unsupervised Isolation Forest algorithm to detect stealth threats before a node crashes. It isolates anomalies by measuring the path length $h(x)$:$$s(x, n) = 2^{-\frac{E(h(x))}{c(n)}}$$If the anomaly score $s \to 1$, the node is flagged for immediate Agentic interrogation.

III. Decentralized Swarm RoutingWhen a physical asset is compromised, the Ant Colony Optimization (ACO) engine calculates dynamic rerouting paths based on simulated pheromone density ($\tau$) and heuristic safety visibility ($\eta$):$$p_{ij}^k = \frac{[\tau_{ij}]^\alpha [\eta_{ij}]^\beta}{\sum_{l \in \mathcal{N}_i^k} [\tau_{il}]^\alpha [\eta_{il}]^\beta}$$



🚀 Mission-Critical Features
Episodic Cyber-Memory: The system actively references a persistent database of past attacks to prescribe deterministic solutions.

Human-in-the-Loop Auto-Learning: The AI grows smarter dynamically. Human approval of a tactic automatically trains the vector model on the new threat signature.

3D Digital Twin: Real-time spatial mapping with PyDeck, featuring glowing tactical UI indicators.

Asynchronous AI Processing: Native FastAPI BackgroundTasks ensure the physical grid and dashboard UI maintain sub-millisecond latency while the LLM "thinks".

⚙️ Lab Deployment & Quickstart
This environment is containerized and optimized for rapid deployment in tactical labs or Codespaces.

1. Install Infrastructure
Bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
2. Configure Cognitive Engine
Create a .env file in the root directory:

Code snippet
GROQ_API_KEY=your_secure_api_key_here
3. Boot the Distributed Architecture
Initiate the physics simulation, Vector Cortex, and REST endpoints.

Bash
uvicorn app.api_server:app --reload
4. Launch the Command Center
Open a second terminal to start the 3D Tactical Dashboard.

Bash
streamlit run dashboard.py

📜 License
This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Enhance project description in README
Added a description of the project's demonstration of advanced AI architectures and cyber-physical defense systems.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  
# 🛡️ City Connect Omega: Prime Edition
### *Autonomous Cyber-Physical Defense Grid with Continuous Vector Learning*

  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.11+-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=python" alt="Python">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Agentic_AI-Llama--3.3-orange?style=for-the-badge" alt="Agentic AI">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Memory-ChromaDB_Vector_Cortex-purple?style=for-the-badge" alt="ChromaDB">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Swarm-ACO_Optimized-green?style=for-the-badge" alt="Swarm Intelligence">

</div>

---

> **An autonomous, multi-agent cyber-immune system for mission-critical Smart City IoT grids.** Built with Agentic AI for tactical diagnostics, **Episodic Vector Memory (RAG)** for historical threat recognition, and a Human-in-the-Loop (HOTL) Continuous Learning architecture that evolves the swarm's intelligence with every defeated zero-day attack.

## 🏗️ System Architecture

The project is built on a **Distributed Microservice Architecture**, decoupling physical asset simulation from the cognitive AI cortex. This ensures zero-latency UI performance while allowing the Llama-3.3 LLM to perform deep semantic searches against the vector database.Built as a demonstration of advanced Agentic AI cognitive architectures, vector memory integration, and cyber-physical defense systems.


```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph "The World (Kinematic Physical Layer)"
        A[City Grid Simulation] -->|Live Telemetry| B{ML Predictive Cortex}
    end

    subgraph "The Brain (Cognitive Layer & RAG)"
        B -->|Anomaly Score < 0| C[Oracle Diagnosis Agent]
        H[(ChromaDB Vector Memory)] <-->|Semantic Search / RAG| C
        C -->|Tactical Brief & Match| D[Executive Commander]
    end

    subgraph "The Shield (Governance & Auto-Learning Layer)"
        D -->|Proposed Action| E[Human-in-the-Loop Veto]
        E -->|Approved (YES)| F[Continuous Auto-Learning]
        F -->|Burn Signature to DB| H
        E -->|Approved (YES)| G[Swarm ACO Reroute]
        E -->|Vetoed (NO)| I[System Log Only]
    end

    G -->|Command Execution| A
    
Core Microservices
Kinematic Physical Layer (app/simulation/): A spatial engine simulating moving IoT nodes in a 1000x1000m coordinate space.

Agentic Cognitive Layer (oracle_agent.py): Powered by CrewAI and Groq (Llama-3.3). Specialized agents diagnose anomalies not by guessing, but by searching historical data.

Episodic Vector Memory (chromadb): A persistent high-dimensional database storing mathematical representations of every attack signature and proven countermeasure.

Continuous Learning API (api_server.py): Asynchronous FastAPI backend. When a human commander approves a tactic, this layer automatically embeds the zero-day footprint into the vector cortex for future recognition.

Digital Twin Command Center (dashboard.py): A high-performance 3D spatial visualization utilizing PyDeck and Streamlit with real-time popup logging.

🧠 Continuous Intelligence Loop
This sequence diagram tracks the advanced asynchronous communication between the physical grid, the RAG-enhanced AI, and the continuous learning feedback loop.
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    participant G as IoT Grid
    participant O as Oracle Agent
    participant V as Vector Database (ChromaDB)
    participant H as Human Commander
    participant A as API Auto-Learning

    G->>O: Push Anomalous Telemetry
    O->>V: Query Semantic Math (RAG)
    V-->>O: Return Historical Match & Countermeasure
    O-->>O: Formulate Tactical Brief
    O->>H: Request Execution Authorization
    H->>H: Review AI Reasoning
    alt Approved (YES)
        H->>A: Approve Action
        A->>V: Burn New Telemetry Signature to Memory
        A->>G: Deploy Countermeasures
    else Vetoed (NO)
        H->>G: Maintain Status Quo (Action Blocked)
    end
    
    
🧮 Scientific Mathematical Pillars
I. High-Dimensional Semantic Retrieval (RAG Memory)The AI does not rely on exact text matching. Telemetry signatures are converted into dense vector embeddings. The Vector Cortex uses Cosine Similarity to mathematically retrieve the closest historical threat signature to a live zero-day anomaly:$$S_C(U, V) = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^{n} U_i V_i}{\sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{n} U_i^2} \sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{n} V_i^2}}$$Where $U$ and $V$ are the high-dimensional vectors representing the current attack and historical database entries.

II. Behavioral Anomaly DetectionThe Predictive Cortex utilizes an unsupervised Isolation Forest algorithm to detect stealth threats before a node crashes. It isolates anomalies by measuring the path length $h(x)$:$$s(x, n) = 2^{-\frac{E(h(x))}{c(n)}}$$If the anomaly score $s \to 1$, the node is flagged for immediate Agentic interrogation.

III. Decentralized Swarm RoutingWhen a physical asset is compromised, the Ant Colony Optimization (ACO) engine calculates dynamic rerouting paths based on simulated pheromone density ($\tau$) and heuristic safety visibility ($\eta$):$$p_{ij}^k = \frac{[\tau_{ij}]^\alpha [\eta_{ij}]^\beta}{\sum_{l \in \mathcal{N}_i^k} [\tau_{il}]^\alpha [\eta_{il}]^\beta}$$



🚀 Mission-Critical Features
Episodic Cyber-Memory: The system actively references a persistent database of past attacks to prescribe deterministic solutions.

Human-in-the-Loop Auto-Learning: The AI grows smarter dynamically. Human approval of a tactic automatically trains the vector model on the new threat signature.

3D Digital Twin: Real-time spatial mapping with PyDeck, featuring glowing tactical UI indicators.

Asynchronous AI Processing: Native FastAPI BackgroundTasks ensure the physical grid and dashboard UI maintain sub-millisecond latency while the LLM "thinks".

⚙️ Lab Deployment & Quickstart
This environment is containerized and optimized for rapid deployment in tactical labs or Codespaces.

1. Install Infrastructure
Bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
2. Configure Cognitive Engine
Create a .env file in the root directory:

Code snippet
GROQ_API_KEY=your_secure_api_key_here
3. Boot the Distributed Architecture
Initiate the physics simulation, Vector Cortex, and REST endpoints.

Bash
uvicorn app.api_server:app --reload
4. Launch the Command Center
Open a second terminal to start the 3D Tactical Dashboard.

Bash
streamlit run dashboard.py

📜 License
This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the LICENSE file for details.
